# Postgres DB for Analyzing Music Streaming

## Overview

A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. This project creates a Postgres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis.

## Files in the Repository

### Datasets
Datasets are located in the `data` folder. The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above.

  
### test.ipynb
displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.


### create_tables.py
drops and creates your tables. You run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.


### etl.ipynb
reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.


### etl.py
reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables. You can fill this out based on your work in the ETL notebook.


### sql_queries.py
contains all your sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.


## How to Run the Scripts
In Jupyter Lab, start a new command line interface by clicking "File" -> "New" -> "Terminal".<br>
1. Run command `python create_tables.py`.
2. Run command `python etl.py`.<br>

Remember to rerun `create_tables.py` to reset your tables before each time you run `etl.py`.


## Database Design
The database tables employ a Star Schema with the purpose to optimize queries on song play analysis.

### Fact Table
1. songplays - records in log data associated with song plays.


### Dimension Tables
1. users - users in the app.
2. songs - songs in music database.
3. artists - artists in music database.
4. time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units.
